= cohort_scope

Provides cohorts (in the form of ActiveRecord scopes) that dynamically widen until they contain a certain number of records.

* <tt>big_cohort</tt> widens by successively removing what it finds to be the most restrictive constraint until it reaches the minimum number of records
* <tt>strict_cohort</tt> widens by eliminating constraints in order until it reaches the minimum number of records

== Changes 0.1.x vs. 0.2.x

No longer "flattens" or "sanitizes" constraints by turning records into integer IDs, etc. You should pass in exactly what you would pass into a normal ActiveRecord relation/scope.

== Real-world use

This has been at use at http://carbon.brighterplanet.com since April 2010, where it helps sift through climate data to come up with meaningful emissions calculations.

== Quick start

Let's pretend the U.S. Census provided information about birthday and favorite color:

  class Citizen < ActiveRecord::Base
    extend CohortScope
    self.minimum_cohort_size = 1_000
  end

Now I need to run a calculation that ideally uses birthday and favorite color, but most importantly looks at a large cohort:

  Citizen.big_cohort :birthdate => (Date.parse('1980-01-01')..Date.parse('1990-01-01')), :favorite_color => 'heliotrope'
  # => [... a cohort of at least 1,000 records (otherwise it's empty),
            where everybody's favorite color MAY be heliotrope
            and everybody's birthday MAY be between 1980 and 1990
            (at least one of those constraints will hold) ...]

What if my calculation privileges favorite color? In other words, if you can't give me a cohort of minimum size within the birthday constraint, at least give me one where everybody loves heliotrope:

  ordered_constraints = []
  ordered_constraints << [:favorite_color, 'heliotrope']
  ordered_constraints << [:birthdate, (Date.parse('1980-01-01')..Date.parse('1990-01-01'))]

  Citizen.strict_cohort *favorite_color_matters_most
  # => [... a cohort of at least 1,000 records (otherwise it's empty),
            where everybody's favorite color IS heliotrope
            and everybody's birthday MAY be between 1980 and 1990 ...]

== Wishlist

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Seamus Abshere and Andy Rossmeissl. See LICENSE for details.
